And let's create a p3.rs.
And now all we have to do is simply grab
our input and we can do the exact thing
that we just didn't go, but let's use the
more iterator kind of fun way to do it.
And it will yield a slightly
different answer.
So I'm gonna jump back to go for
a quick second.
I'm gonna yap that and
then paste in the wrong thing and
then paste in the right thing.
It's how I assert dominance really.
Do that, make sure I have that and
of course, return string.arrow.
Again, it's an ampersand static string,
right?
Cuz this reference lives forever because
this is a string that's compiled into
our program.
Going here make that into a double quote
this is where I wish I had that surrounds
that you're talking about.
And there we go, we have this beautiful
working function always create a main
function because that's what it wants.
And so
let's just solve it with this right here.
So we're gonna go get input.
Okay, so remember,
everything always think iterators.
What is the thing we always call on
this block of text as the first thing,
was the first thing we do.
We got to convert it from
a string into an iterator.
Anyone know what the first method is?
Lines, we got to get each line, right?
I was like come on I do this I knew this,
right?
Okay, so
now we're into iterator zone which is it
which I know is obviously much nicer.
So here's where we're gonna get
something kind of interesting.
So iterators do not give you your index,
unlike the one in JavaScript where I just
simply need to add the second parameter,
which is actually your
index into the array.
And even the third one
is the array itself.
I think there's some fun
problem with parse int.
And using it over a map because it
actually passes in a bunch of things.
You'll get a bunch of crazy answers.
But anyways, let's go here.
So there's another thing called a
numerate, which will take an iterator and
then attach an index to it.
And so now I can have the same thing that
I had with for each where I have the I or
the for range and
go Lang I can now just have it right here.
Again, it's not creating
copies of an entire array.
It's just adding one value, turning it
into a tuple and adding an index to it.
So it's quite nice.
So there we go.
So the numerate very fantastic this thing.
Man, again, having a great
library to manipulate strings or
work with iterators makes using
a language really simple.
I think that this actually really helps.
So now that we have the string
line plus its index,
we can just do that simple,
multiply by three yada.
So let's go like this.
Let's filter.
Let's use a filter this time
cuz filters feel more exciting.
And what is coming into here so
we can destructure.
Remember rust allows destructuring
inside the argument.
So we have a, I believe it should
be a reference to a tuple of index.
And of course line.
I wanna say I'm pretty
correct on this one.
Let's find out.
It looks like I am correct on this one.
Okay, awesome.
So now that we have this,
we need to do something with it.
So let's go like this.
Let's go line.
I'm gonna return because, remember,
I do not use implicit returns, chars.
So that goes over every
single UTF-8 character.
This is actually gonna
properly treat the string so
you won't have these weird
byte problems going on.
And then we need the nth item, right?
I want the nth item in this array or
in this iterator.
It's kind of a cool trick, right?
So now I can say, okay, the nth one,
of course is gonna be the index
multiplied by three module load by
line.length, just like we did before.
But what does nth return?
So let's take a look at it.
Let's just we can just
jump to its definition.
It is an option because it may not exist.
So now we kind of have a we have a small
problem it's not a big problem but
we definitely have a smaller problem here.
So what can we do here?
Well we can return.
We could technically do like is sum.
So, I mean, that would work.
We could turn this into
a nice if statement, right?
So I could go let char at equals this and
then convert it into snake
case because that'd be rude.
And then go if let sum char at
equals char at and go if.
This is a lot stuff right here, right?
If char-at equals that, well,
then what happens, right?
We should be able to do this, but
then let's see we should be able
to go return true or return false.
Yeah, I guess you could do that and
saying, hey,
this is incorrect because you forgot that.
And then I'm saying this little next
thing this character is actually not
even a string.
What are you doing?
Okay, you're right.
So let's make sure we use
a character not a string.
And there we go.
This actually technically works.
We will be getting that character,
but honestly,
this doesn't necessarily feel that great.
Can we all agree this
does not feel that great?
Okay, good.
I'm happy you guys feel the same way.
So let's do a flat map instead.
Remember, flat maps.
If you're seeing maps,
what can you do to it?
You can squash it in and
just make it work.
It feels so great.
And remember if the thing is none,
well guess what?
That's okay.
It will just ignore it, right?
So if we're off the beaten path,
it's perfectly fine.
So let's return this thing right here.
And let's get rid of this for now.
So now we have this beautiful
thing that is screwed up
because I was using a filter.
There we go.
So now we have this so
now the next time we call map,
it will have the value from
the option because it mapped it in.
Which we can also do a filter now.
If we do a filter now, what do you
think the thing is inside this closure?
What type?
Can anyone take a wild guess?
>> It's areference to the string or
something
>> Man, good job.
It's a reference to the character right?
That we've just pulled out it's
a reference to the nth character cuz
remember filters are references.
So if I just put an X right here, go this.
It's a reference to the character.
Great job.
That was a really good.
You weren't writing any code.
So you're like killing it.
Does that right?
Yeah, all right.
So awesome.
So we actually have that.
So this is good.
So I can do something like this.
Filter where x equals the octothorpe,
right?
And there we go so
we still have one problem.
Of course, we have this thing so
we'll just pattern match
away the ampersand sign.
It's like hey,
this thing is unused still, right?
We haven't made it, we haven't changed it
from an iterator into something that can
actually use the iterator, right?
So let's go like this.
Count, tell me that's not pretty great,
right?
We just simply need to count the items.
We don't need any of the memory, right?
We don't need to know.
We just need to know that hey, were these
ant characters where they pound signs
how many nth characters for pound signs.
And so there's like a really kind
of clever way to get around this.
And so let's do a little print LN and
do one of these.
Go all the way down here and do that.
And for fun, let's cargo run this bad boy.
P3 we hit a seven.
So that's exactly what
we were looking for.
My goodness,
it worked first try, feels good.
But I think this probably leads to at
least one or two questions because this is
very functional, this is very different
probably If you're used to the TypeScript
world because this certainly does not
just exist in regular TypeScript.
It's just a count doesn't this whole
notion of an iterator needing to
convert into a concrete value.
I do see some of my functional
friends there in chat.
I believe they can
correct me if I'm wrong.
This is called a cat amorphic operation,
converting from this kind of
iterator type into a single value.
I believe I might be correct on that,
but I'm not I don't wear a tie dye
T-shirts and I'm not ready for
the functional world yet.